thor ragnarok is about to hit theaters
and we're recapping everything you need
to know before seeing the magic Viking
abs of Chris Hemsworth in a new film
first of all the Norse gods of legend
are actually real except they're from
another planet so they're more like
space Vikings so the space Vikings live
on a planet called Asgard and they
travel to eight other planets with the
machine called the Bifrost the planets
are called Asgard Jotunheim Midgard
which is Earth vanaheim far too far for
I'm a thousand years ago frost giants
from Planet Jotunheim tried to conquer
earth with the magic ice cube that
freezes stuff they ask Guardians stopped
them and then locked their magic ice
cube in their basement so here's all the
important as Guardians to know Odin is
king of Asgard
Frigga is the queen and they have two
sons Loki and Thor Thor has always been
the favored son and Loki's had to work
harder to get affection kind of like
Peyton and Eli Manning Odin once Thor to
be king but Loki thinks that's a
terrible idea and once the throne for
himself frost giants interrupt Thor's
coronation to steal back their magic Ice
Cube but they're killed by a
fire-breathing robot called the
destroyer obviously Thor is upset the
frost giants ruined his big day and
convinces his brother and Friends lady
SIF and the Warriors three to Leroy
Jenkins their way into Jotunheim and
smashed up the guardian of the Bifrost
is a guy named Heimdall he lets them
pass but warns them that if he leaves
the gate open too long it will destroy
Jotunheim
so maybe retain that information for
later yeah you gotta wonder if this is
gonna pay off later on so thorn his
friends are quickly overwhelmed just
when the Giants are about to win Odin
saves them Odin is so angry he takes
away Thor's hammer and exile Zin to
earth this is how space Vikings ground
their kids by taking away their toys and
sending them to our planet so Thor no
longer has his powers and he lands in
the desert where he's found by a
scientist named Jane Foster
she and her team a scientist named Erik
Selvig and an intern named Darcy are
studying wormholes they deduced that
Thor came out of the magic sky hole and
look after him
his hammer landed outside of a small
town and the most realistic part of this
movie is that every redneck within
spitting distance tries to move it boys
I'll tell you what they said they got
this magic hammer out on dirt Rock
holler hold my beer and I'll lift that
son of a gun and the fun is ruined when
the government agency shield builds a
base around the hammer dying big
government so back in Asgard basement
Odin tells
that he's really the child of the frost
giant King laughing they have a big
fight and Odin takes a magic nap called
the Odin sleep not to be confused with
another deep nap the kitty sleep Loki is
now acting king and refuses to allow
Thor to come home so back on earth or
integrates with the locals during
dialogues I know he fights off some
shield agents but finds he can no longer
lift his hammer
Loki visits and tells him that Odin's
dead and his mom doesn't want to see him
anymore
shield releases Thor and later he and
Jane sit on a roof and start to catch
feelings lady SIF and the Warriors three
suspect Loki let the frost giants into
Asgard and they sneak off to earth to
find their friend
Loki sends the destroyer robot to kill
Thor when Thor sacrifices himself the
hammer decides that he's worthy his
powers returned he beats the destroyer
and returns to Asgard
Loki fires up the Bifrost to destroy
Jotunheim and then Thor is given an
impossible choice to choose between
never again seeing Jane a woman he's
known for only a week or preventing
genocide he actually takes a minute to
think this over
Thor destroys the Bifrost Odin shows up
rejects Loki and he falls into a Pink
Floyd poster and the post-credits scene
shield recruits Erik Selvig to work on
the tesseract and we see that Loki is
controlling him wait stop what is the
tesseract the tesseract is a powerful
object from space that allows users to
teleport by the time the Avenger starts
superheroes are walking the earth here's
the Super Soldier Captain America Iron
Man and the Hulk let's talk about the
hawk briefly because this isn't his
recap but he has a big role in Thor
Ragnarok The Hulk is a scientist Bruce
Banner who in the words of Tony Stark
a huge fan of the way you lose control
and turn into an enormous green rage
monster also maybe he can control the
Hulk kind of the movies are never clear
on how much control Banner has over the
Hulk so just go with it this guy turns
into this guy and sometimes he's a good
guy sometimes he just smash the stuff
randomly don't think too hard now on to
the Avengers Loki uses a magic staff to
mind-control Erik Selvig he steals the
tesseract and shield director Nick Fury
recruits superheroes to save the world
and make Disney lots and lots of money
Loki is apprehended by Iron Man and
Captain America all goes well until Thor
shows up to take Loki and the tesseract
back to Asgard the brothers have a
little heart-to-heart where Loki admits
that he only wants to conquer earth to
win their dad's approval
so basically none of this would have
happened if Odin would have hugged his
kids oh yeah and by the way don't worry
about Jane she'll put her on an island
also in the Avengers Thor has a new
sleeveless costume to show off his guns
and a lot of women and the Marvel
Universe noticed I don't think Thor's
technically I got you haven't been near
his arms and Helen I expect to see you
at the party on Saturday well Thor
either
wouldn't mind getting my human hands on
door so dreamy sure he's handsome but no
who's dreaming
Loki opens a portal in the heart of
Manhattan aliens pour out and Thor and
the other heroes unite to fight them off
and it's it's pretty great it's pretty
great I love this movie The Hulk beats
up Loki
while Selvig overcomes the mind control
and closes the portal afterwards Loki is
arrested and taken back to Asgard The
Avengers are formed and afterwards eat
some shwarma Thor the dark world begins
with another prologue thousands of years
ago when the nine realms converged the
dark elf Malekith tried to end existence
using the ether which controls all of
reality and kind of looks like kool-aid
it's very important to know that this
guy can only use the magic kool-aid to
destroy the universe when all of these
planets are aligned
that's good information for later after
the Bifrost was broken in Thor 1 the
nine realms fell into chaos and Thor is
off restoring order he straight up
murders this rock guy who I hope wasn't
related to this other rock guy and Thor
Ragnarok is that'll be an awkward
conversation when they meet back on
earth Jane investigates a warehouse
where gravity's going crazy not that
that's the midnight City video
is from Thor the dark world Jane slips
through a portal and the ether finds her
in bonds to her against her will and
that way ether is very much like space
glitter Heimdall sees that something's
wrong with Jane and Thor brings her back
to Asgard they realized the ether is
feeding off of her like a cosmic powered
tapeworm the Jane and Thor chill out an
Asgard and he explains the convergence
by holding hands flirting by explaining
science I've seen that one before
and it's better than the way this guy
explained things I don't like sense by
the way natalie portman was way more
into one of these kisses than the other
elsewhere Malekith wakes up and he wants
to get the ether for himself he sends
one of his soldiers cursed but spelled
with a k to infiltrate Asgard and drop
their show generator so they can send
her ships through very familiar Frigga
kicks Malekith ass but she's ambushed by
curse with a K and killed
r.i.p Frigga after where she gets a
space Viking funeral where they send her
off the edge of the world so I guess
that means that pre-columbian thinkin
was correct and some planets are flat
great space Vikings
anyways Malekith is drawn toward the
ether so Thor sneaks Jane off of Asgard
he gets help from Loki who's not
handling his mother's death well the
three of them go to planets as part of
my Thor's plan is to let Malekith draw
away the ether from Jane so it'll be
exposed and they can destroy it
another great plan Malekith arrives in
loki be traced Thor and cuts off his
hand
what Oh saighe all part of the plan
Malekith draws out the ether and thor
strikes with lightning too bad it can't
be destroyed and Malekith takes it away
like I said an ugly plan
Loki saves Thor's life but curse with a
K kills him r.i.p Loki Jane and Thor
find a portal back to earth and he's
reunited with all of the science friends
Erik Selvig is going kind of insane of
how to garden library and he's been
running around naked at Stonehenge
[Music]
Malekith brings his giant death ship to
earth but for some reason the Avengers
are too busy to help
so portals open between worlds there's
all sorts of hilarious hijinks and Thor
ends up on the subway and this seems
pretty funny but it's still only the
second best scene of a Marvel character
on the train
Thor science friends put up a bunch of
poles that teleport Malekith to another
planet where he's crushed by a ship Thor
turns down the throne of Asgard and then
returns to earth to make out with Jane
but it turns out that Loki was actually
posing as Odin what so where's Odin I
guess we gotta wait till the next movie
to find out all right Doctor Strange I'm
gonna quickly go over this because he
plays a small part in Ragnarok Doctor
Strange is a sorcerer who protects stars
from extra-dimensional threats he fights
them on earth and inside blacklight
posters he lives in New York City in
Greenwich Village and he does magic and
such that's really all you need to know
before watching Ragnarok oh and he has
the superpower to make beer appear from
nowhere so he and Tony Stark should
never hang out and now once the Avengers
age of Ultron Thor is back with the
Avengers busting up bad guys in an
opening scene that reminds me a lot of
the opening credits of GI Joe
an evil army called Hydra has Loki's
mind-control scepter and The Avengers
are fighting to take it back later Tony
Stark uses it to create Ultron and
artificial intelligence that become
sentient and wants to destroy humanity
very familiar The Hulk goes on a rampage
and nearly destroys a city so now Bruce
banners afraid of becoming the Hulk look
I gotta be honest
Thor doesn't do a lot in this movie he
spends the entire middle act in a magic
hot tub having weird visions that look
like a pg-13 Eyes Wide Shut he does
shoot lightning from his chest which
could foreshadow this new ability he has
in Thor Ragnarok later he reunites with
the Avengers to defeat Ultron's evil
robot army oh but where's Jane
I'm not even sure what country Jane's in
great so don't worry about Jake at the
end of the movie the halkans up when a
tiny jet but decides the world is better
off if he goes into hiding again we
don't know how but he ends up in space
for the next Thor movie Thor goes back
into space to figure out why so many
Infinity stones have surfaced in the
past few years alright guys I'm really
excited for Thor Ragnarok and I hope you
are too let us know in the comments what
you thought if there's anything we left
out or screen crush I'm Ryan Arry
[Music]